Core Concepts week 1 day 7 update (#44)
microsoft/win-student-devs: docs/30DaysOfPWA/core-concepts/07.md

---

## Select a Web App

If you follow me online, you might have noticed [my #Recipes4AJ](https://twitter.com/search?q=Recipes4AJ&src=typed_query&f=live) tweets. It's my way of leaving recipe trails for my 13yo should he find himself wanting to make them some day. And I wanted to convert these into a website with more images, tags and search capability. I found this great [Eleventy starter](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/github.com/maeligg/my-online-cookbook) for an [Online Cookbook](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/myonlinecookbook.netlify.app) that was a perfect starting point.

But I realized that we might want to use recipes on camping trips (when we are off the grid) or when travelling (with limited data). Wouldn't it be great if this _online cookbook_ was **offline friendly**? Let's make it happen with Progressive Web Apps!

---

## Audit as Baseline

My first step was to create an instance of this template and make sure the current app worked on my local device following the basic `npm install`, `npm run dev` [guidance](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/github.com/maeligg/my-online-cookbook#running-the-site-locally) provided by the starter template.

> Now, I could inspect it in my browser DevTools. Did you know [Microsoft Edge](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to) and other browsers will allow PWA APIs to be accessed from _http://localhost_ for debugging purposes only. We don't have a PWA yet, but this will come in handy as we iterate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, I could inspect it in my browser DevTools. Luckily for us, [Microsoft Edge](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to) and other browsers will allow PWA APIs to be accessed from _http://localhost_ for debugging purposes only. We don't have a PWA yet, but this will come in handy as we iterate.
```

drop rhetorical question

For instance:
 - adding an offline page
 - trying other service worker strategies
 - adding screenshots and improving the manifest
 - exploring new web capabilities 
 - adding actual content (my own)

The [SETUP](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.7/github.com/fearlessly-dev/recipe-me/blob/main/SETUP.md) page should document these changes as I go, in case you want to follow along!

---

## The Final Proof

Yes, the audit tells us we did good - but does it actually work the way we want it to? Time to test it for PWA capabilities!!

 * **Install it on desktop**. This is what mine looks like when installed on a MacBook Pro. Notice the standalone mode (no browser address bar or other hints that this is a web app)
 * **Explore it** - does it work and feel like a native app?
 * **Go offline!**. Disconnect from the network (e.g., put your laptop in Flight mode). Can you still launch and explore it?
 * **Does it feel native?** Use the search tool (Finder on Mac) - can you discover your PWA just like any other natively installed app?

![PWA is now installed.](_media/pwa-installed.png)

> We have just begun the journey but hopefully you now have a solid foundation for an app that you can play with and evolve as we walk through more advanced capabilities, developer tools, platforms and practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have just begun the journey but hopefully you now have a solid foundation for Progressive Web Apps as we walk through more advanced capabilities, developer tools, platforms and practices.
```

generalize

I had a wonderful time being your guide through week 1 of core concepts. Now if you'll excuse me, I have a long weekend ahead. I think I might need to plan that camping trip, go off the grid - and cook up a storm!

Happy learning trails!

---

## Exercise

Your turn!! Take an existing app and try to refactor it to be a basic PWA.

>  * Inspect it locally - check your Application and Lighthouse tabs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Inspect it locally - check your Application and Lighthouse tabs.
```

add period

 * Audit it on PWABuilder - get baseline scores and guidance

>  * Host it on HTTPS-enabled server - GitHub pages or Azure Static Web Apps can help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Host it on HTTPS-enabled server - GitHub pages or Azure Static Web Apps can help.
```

add period

 * Add a Manifest - and link it.
 * Test it - can you install this to desktop?
 * Add a Service Worker - and register it.

>  * Inspect it once in DevTools locally - then deploy it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Inspect it once in DevTools locally - then deploy it.
```

add period
